# Assignment 1


## Chapter Review Questions

1. What is the difference between a host system and an end system? List several different types of systems. Is a web server an end system?
  - The terms 'host' and 'end system' should be considered synonymous. 
  - Web servers, cell phones, and standard user computers should all be considered end systems
3. Why are standards for important protocols?
  - If you do not clearly define the standards for network protocols, there is no way for devices to ensure proper communication. Without these rules, devices may be attempting communication in undefined ways without an ability to understand the messages sent by other devices. 
4. List six access technologies. Classify each one as home access, enterprise access, or wide area wireless access.
  - Fiber to the Home (FTTH): home access
  - Cable Internet Access: home access
  - Digital Subscriber Line (DSL): home access
  - 4G LTE(smartest acronym ever): wide-area wireless access
  - Ethernet: enterprise access
  - Satellite: home access


11. Suppose there is exactly one packet switch between a sending host and a receiving host. The transmission rates between the sending host and the switch and between the switch and the receiving host are R1 and R2 respectively. Assuming that the switch uses store-and-forward packet switching, what is the total end-to-end delay to send a packet of length L? (Ignore queuing, propagation delay, and processing delay.)
  - L/R1 + L/R2
12. What advantage does a circuit-switched network have over a packet-switched network? What advantages does TDM have over FDM in a circuit-switched network?
  - Circuit switches have set amounts of bandwidth and can guarantee uninterrupted communication. TDM does not require the same complicated analog systems that FDM does.
13. Suppose users share a 2Mbps link. Also suppose each user transmits continuously at 1 Mbps when transmitting, but each user transmits only 20% of the time.

  a. When the circuit switching is used, how many users can be supported?
  - 2 since each uses half of the bandwidth.

  b. For the remainder of this problem, suppose switching is being used. Why will there be essentially no queuing delay before the link if two or fewer users transmit at the same time? Why will there be queuing delay if three users transmit at the same time?
  - If there are only two or fewer users, the queuing delay will be zero, but this will increase with each subsequent added user. 

  c. Find the probability that a given user is transmitting.
  - 20%

  d. Suppose now there are three users. Find the probability that at any given time, all three users are transmitting simultaneously. Find the fraction of time during which the queue grows.
  - This would be the probability that a user is transmitting to the power of 3 so ((0.2)^3), or 0.8%

14. Why will two ISPs at the same level of the hierarchy often peer with each other? How does IXP earn money?
  - Provider ISPs charge for traffic and are necessary for ISPs at different levels of the hierarchy. ISPs that run an internet exchange point (where ISPs can peer with each other) charge for traffic.
15. Some content providers have created their own networks. Describe google's network. What motivates content providers to create these networks?
  - Google prioritizes utilizing lower-tier ISPs, which gives them the ability to avoid sending traffic into provider networks.
16. Consider sending a packet from a source host to a destination host over a fixed route. List the delay components in the end-to-end delay. Which of these delays are constant and which are variable?
  - Querying delays
  - Transmission delays
  - Propagation delays
  - Processing delays
  - Only queuing delays are not constant.
18. How long does it take a packet of length 1,000 bytes to propagate over a link of distance
2,500 km, propagation speed 2.5 \* 108 m/s, and transmission rate 2 Mbps? More generally, how
long does it take a packet of length L to propagate over a link of distance d, propagation speed
s, and transmission rate R bps? Does this delay depend on packet length? Does this delay
depend on transmission rate?
  - 10 milliseconds. This delay does not depend on packet length or transmission rate. 
19. Suppose host A wants to send a large file to host B. The path from host A to host B has three links, of rates R1=500 kbps, R2=2 Mbps, and R3=1 Mbps.

  a. Assuming no other traffic in the network, what is the throughput for the file transfer?
  - If no other traffic is present, the rate stays at R1. 500kbps.

  b. Suppose the file is 4 million bytes. Dividing the file size by the throughput, roughly how long will it take to transfer the file to host B?
  - 64 seconds.

  c.Repeat (a) and (b), but now with R2 reduced to 100 kbps
  - The throughput rate changes to 100kbps and the transfer time becomes 320 seconds.

20. Suppose end system A wants to send a large file to end system B. At a very high level,
describe how end system A creates packets from the file. When one of these packets arrives to
a router, what information in the packet does the router use to determine the link onto which the
packet is forwarded? Why is packet switching in the Internet analogous to driving from one city
to another and asking directions along the way?
  - The file is broken down into chunks at one end of the system and sent along to the to the other end system. When first broken apart, the file attaches headers to the chunks, which are then used to identify the IP of the destination end system. 
23. What are the five layers in the Internet protocol stack? What are the principal
responsibilities of each of these layers?
  - Application: handles some protocols like HTTP, SMTP, and FTP; allows for human-friendly names for internet end systems. Packets here are called messages.
  - Transport: handles TCP and UDP. Packets here are called segments.
  - Network: handles delivering segments to the transport layer in the destination host. Packets here are called datagrams.
  - Link: Takes datagrams from the network layer and delivers them across to the next node and passes it back up to the network layer. Packets here are called frames.
  - Physical: Moves the individual bits. 
25. Which layers in the Internet protocol stack does a router process? Which layers does a
link-layer switch process? Which layers does a host process?
  - Routers handle the network, link, and physical layers. A link-layer switch processes the link and physical layers, but hosts have to process all five.
27.  Describe how a botnet can be created and how it can be used for a DDoS attack.
  - Botnets start by finding security flaws in known systems or common applications. They then try to take advantage of the widespread use of what they have found an exploit in. They find other users or systems to go after, ultimately creating a larger network of communicating devices that the virus architect is in control of. This can propagate into a large network of devices, which means the central user could send packet requests to a target and overload them easily.


### Problems

3. Consider an application that transmits data at a steady rate (for example, the sender
generates an N-bit unit of data every k time units, where k is small and fixed). Also, when such
an application starts, it will continue running for a relatively long period of time. Answer the
following questions, briefly justifying your answer:

  a. Would a packet-switched network or a circuit-switched network be more appropriate for
this application? Why?
  - Circuit-switched networks are better prepared for this situation since there are more set bandwidth requirements. Analog setup costs are cancelled out by the length of the runtime.

  b. Suppose that a packet-switched network is used and the only traffic in this network
comes from such applications as described above. Furthermore, assume that the sum of
the application data rates is less than the capacities of each and every link. Is some form
of congestion control needed? Why?
  - Congestion management is not necessary here, as the links have enough bandwidth to manage the data rates. 
10. Consider a packet of length L that begins at end system A and travels over three links to a
destination end system. These three links are connected by two packet switches. Let d, s , and
R denote the length, propagation speed, and the transmission rate of link i, for i = [1,2,3]. The
packet switch delays each packet by d . Assuming no queuing delays, in terms of d, s , R,
(i=[1,2,3]), and L, what is the total end-to-end delay for the packet? Suppose now the packet is
1,500 bytes, the propagation speed on all three links is 2.5 \* 108m/s, the transmission rates of all
three links are 2 Mbps, the packet switch processing delay is 3 msec, the length of the first link is
5,000 km, the length of the second link is 4,000 km, and the length of the last link is 1,000 km.
For these values, what is the end-to-end delay?
  - d1/s1 in link one and d2/s2 in link two
  - 64 msec
12. A packet switch receives a packet and determines the outbound link to which the packet
should be forwarded. When the packet arrives, one other packet is halfway done being
transmitted on this outbound link and four other packets are waiting to be transmitted. Packets
are transmitted in order of arrival. Suppose all packets are 1,500 bytes and the link rate is 2
Mbps. What is the queuing delay for the packet? More generally, what is the queuing delay when
all packets have length L, the transmission rate is R, x bits of the currently-being-transmitted
packet have been transmitted, and n packets are already in the queue?
  - Packet queuing delay: 27 msec
  - Ln/R + (L-x)/R
18. Perform a Traceroute between source and destination on the same continent at three
different hours of the day.

  a. Find the average and standard deviation of the round-trip delays at each of the three
hours
  |Average|Standard Deviation|
  |-------|------------------|
  |17.99433333|10.20045217|
  |14.85266667|9.160591774|
  |15.9586|11.12869761|

  b. Find the number of routers in the path at each of the three hours. Did the paths change
during any of the hours?
  - There were 8 routers in the path at each of the three hours. Some of the specific IPs did, in fact, change.

  c. Try to identify the number of ISP networks that the Traceroute packets pass through from
source to destination. Routers with similar names and/or similar IP addresses should be
considered as part of the same ISP. In your experiments, do the largest delays occur at
the peering interfaces between adjacent ISPs?
  - It seems like 4 different ISP networks were involved in the Traceroute process. The largest delays do seem to come from the adjacent ISPs, but a larger sample size should be used before drawing more conclusions.
30. Consider the airline travel analogy in our discussion of layering in Section 1.5 , and the
addition of headers to protocol data units as they flow down the protocol stack. Is there an
equivalent notion of header information that is added to passengers and baggage as they move
down the airline protocol stack?
  - Plane tickets and baggage tags seem to be the closes immediate analogs. The baggage tag stubs help for uniting them after the journey is complete, and the plane ticket and tag placed on the bag itself serve as the route identifying information. 
